Evangelists.md, before:

# Evangelists

AOSSIE is starting an evangelist program in 2026.
Evangelists are University Students responsible for promoting AOSSIE in various universities.


## Eligibility to be an AOSSIE Evangelist

To be an evangelist, you must:
* be a part of a university with atleast a year of active education remaining.
* be an active organizing/managing member of an open-source student community or club recognized by your university.

You do not need to be an active contributor or mentor at AOSSIE.

## Responsibilities of an Evangelist

As an Evangelist, you should:
* advertise AOSSIE's participation in coding programs (e.g. Google Summer of Code) to students in your university.
* guide prospective contributors from your university regarding inquiries they might have about AOSSIE.
* ensure that prospective contributors from your university or region are aware of and respect AOSSIE's rules and guidelines.



## List of Current Evangelists

| Region           | University | Student Club name | Evangelist | Discord Username | Github Username |
| ---------------- | ---------- | ----------------- | ---------- | ---------------- | --------------- |
| Australia        | --         | TODO              | TODO       | TODO             | TODO            |
| Austria          | --         | TODO              | TODO       | TODO             | TODO            |
| Argentina        | --         | TODO              | TODO       | TODO             | TODO            |
| Brazil           | --         | TODO              | TODO       | TODO             | TODO            |
| Canada           | --         | TODO              | TODO       | TODO             | TODO            |
| Germany          | --         | TODO              | TODO       | TODO             | TODO            |
| Egypt            | --         | TODO              | TODO       | TODO             | TODO            |
| India            | --         | TODO              | TODO       | TODO             | TODO            |
| Slavic Countries | --         | TODO              | TODO       | TODO             | TODO            |
| Sri Lanka        | --         | TODO              | TODO       | TODO             | TODO            |

If you are eligible and would like to apply to be an evangelist, create a PR adding your name to the table above and inform the admins about it in Discord.

Commit message:

docs: Make changes to the Evangelist program

Evangelists.md, after:

# Evangelists

AOSSIE is starting an evangelist program in 2026.
Evangelists are University Students responsible for promoting AOSSIE in various universities.
We aim to target every single university with this program, and recruit one Evangelist per university.


## Eligibility to be an AOSSIE Evangelist

To be an evangelist, you must:
* be a part of a university with atleast a year of active education remaining.
* be an active organizing/managing member of an open-source student community or club recognized by your university.

You do not need to be an active contributor or mentor at AOSSIE.

## Responsibilities of an Evangelist

As an Evangelist, you should:
* advertise AOSSIE's participation in coding programs (e.g. Google Summer of Code) to students in your university.
* guide prospective contributors from your university regarding inquiries they might have about AOSSIE.
* ensure that prospective contributors from your university or region are aware of and respect AOSSIE's rules and guidelines.
* conduct atleast 2-3 Events per semester in your university or region which must be properly documented and shared with the community.
  In these events, you are expected to tell the student community about AOSSIE and our projects. The events can be varied, and some ideas for events are:
  - Workshops on Open Source Software, how to set them up
  - Workshops on Contributing to Open Source
  - Demo Sessions for AOSSIE Projects
  - Info Sessions on OSS Programs, etc.

As an Evangelist, You can be assigned one of 3 states - Active, Inactive, Suspended
- Every Evangelist starts with an Active Status
- Evangelists must conduct atleast 2 events every semester to retain the Active status. Failure will result in a demotion to Inactive status.
- If an Evangelist retains the inactive status for more than one semester, they will be marked as Suspended, and removed from the Evangelist program.


## List of Current Evangelists

| Region           | University | Student Club name | Evangelist | Status | Discord Username | Github Username |
| ---------------- | ---------- | ----------------- | ---------- | ------ | ---------------- | --------------- |
| Australia        | --         | TODO              | TODO       | TODO   | TODO             | TODO            |
| Austria          | --         | TODO              | TODO       | TODO   | TODO             | TODO            |
| Argentina        | --         | TODO              | TODO       | TODO   | TODO             | TODO            |
| Brazil           | --         | TODO              | TODO       | TODO   | TODO             | TODO            |
| Canada           | --         | TODO              | TODO       | TODO   | TODO             | TODO            |
| Germany          | --         | TODO              | TODO       | TODO   | TODO             | TODO            |
| Egypt            | --         | TODO              | TODO       | TODO   | TODO             | TODO            |
| India            | --         | TODO              | TODO       | TODO   | TODO             | TODO            |
| Slavic Countries | --         | TODO              | TODO       | TODO   | TODO             | TODO            |
| Sri Lanka        | --         | TODO              | TODO       | TODO   | TODO             | TODO            |

If you are eligible and would like to apply to be an evangelist, create a PR adding your name to the table above and inform the admins about it in Discord.
