GSoC-Ideas/2026/index.md, before:

# AOSSIE's Idea List for Google Summer of Code 2026

As an umbrella organization since its inception 10 years ago, AOSSIE's projects have evolved mostly independently from each other. More recently, we have started a deliberate effort to group these projects by theme and skillset and to ensure that knowledge and mentorship propagates efficiently across projects of the same themes and with the same skillset. This year we are taking another step in this direction with the introduction of org-wide ideas.


* [Project-Specific Ideas, Grouped by Theme](index.md#project-specific-ideas-grouped-by-theme)
* [Organization-Wide Ideas](index.md#organization-wide-ideas)


## Project-Specific Ideas, Grouped by Theme and Tagged by Skillset

Project-specific ideas are ideas where the contributor is expected to focus on a single project, while taking care of all aspects of the project. These ideas are suitable for contributors who are generalists and interested in using all technical competence areas required by the project.

The skillset needed in each idea is shown in brackets.

### Theme: Open Money

**Theme goal:** research and develop open source money. 

**Ideas:**
  - [Gluon](Gluon.md) _{Blockchain}_ _{Web}_
  - [Djed](Djed.md) _{Blockchain}_ _{Web}_
  - [StablePay](StablePay.md) _{Blockchain}_ _{Web}_
  - [Zplit](Zplit.md) _{Blockchain}_ _{Mobile}_
  - [MiniChain](MiniChain.md) _{Blockchain}_

### Theme: Decentralized Economic and Financial Stability

**Theme goal:** improve economic and financial stability in DeFi.

**Ideas:**
  - [Fate](Fate.md) _{Blockchain}_ _{Web}_
  - [Karma](Karma.md) _{Blockchain}_ _{Web}_
  - [Orb](Orb.md) _{Blockchain}_ _{Web}_
  - [Porting our Projects from EVM to Ergo](Ergo.md) _{Blockchain}_ _{Web}_
  - [An Order-Book Variation of the Maelstrom Auction-Based Decentralized Exchange](OrderBookAuctionExchange.md) _{Blockchain}_ _{Web}_


### Theme: User-Empowering "Sunny" Tools

**Theme goal:** empower users to do localy, in their own devices, what would normally require them to depend on cloud-based services.

**Ideas:**
  - [PictoPy](PictoPy.md) _{AI}_ _{Desktop}_
  - [DocPilot](DocPilot.md) _{Mobile}_ _{AI}_
  - [Smart Notes](SmartNotes.md) _{AI}_ _{Desktop}_
  - [Neurotrack](Neurotrack.md) _{Mobile}_ _{AI}_

### Theme: Trust

**Theme goal:** enable us to trust the people and sources of knowledge that we rely on.

**Ideas:**
  - [End-to-End Open Verifiable LLM](LLM.md) _{AI}_ 
  - [Decentralized Identity Tokens](DIT.md) _{Blockchain}_ _{Web}_


### Theme: Education

**Theme goal:** help people learn.

**Ideas*:* 
  - [Interactive Quizz Experience for EduAid](EduAid.md) _{AI}_ _{Web}_
  - [Novel AI-Powered Education-Focused Apps](EduAI.md) _{AI}_ _{Mobile}_


### Theme: Sustainability

**Theme goal:** protect the environment and increase awareness about our planet's nature.
  
**Ideas:**   
  - AOSSIE has many projects related to carbon footprint awareness. These projects have become inactive recently, but sustainability remains a strong focus theme for AOSSIE. Therefore, although we do not have specific ideas within this theme this year so far, our sustainability projects are in scope for our org-wide ideas above and we are open to novel sustainability-related project ideas.

### Theme: Communication

**Theme goal:** build open, free and censorship-resistant communication infra-structure. 
  - [Resonate](Resonate.md) _{Mobile}_
  - [Rein](Rein.md) _{Networks}_


### Theme: Governance and Management

**Theme goal:** ease community and team work.
  - [Org Explorer](OrgExplorer.md)  _{Web}_
  - [Discord/Github Bot](Bot.md) _{Bots}_
  - [Ellena](Ellena.md) _{Web}_ _{AI}_

We are open to proposals that fit into our general themes, even if they don't fit exactly the ideas that are currently listed above. However, if you have such a proposal, discuss it with mentors and other contributors publicly in Discord firstly.


## Organization-Wide Ideas

Org-wide ideas are ideas where a single contributor will contribute to many of our projects, but focusing on a single aspect in every project. These ideas are particularly suitable for contributors who prefer to specialize in a single technical competence area and who have the soft skills to interact effectively with contributors and mentors from many projects.

- [DevOps](DevOps.md)
- [Fundraising and Monetization](FundraisingMonetization.md)
- [Redundancy and Choice for External Dependencies](Choice.md)
- [Making our Projects Independent from Cloud Services](LessCloud.md)
- [Better UI/UX for our Projects](UI.md)
- [Design and Implement Great-Looking Landing Pages for our Projects](LandingPages.md)
- [SEO, Social Sharing and Marketing](SEO.md)
- [Operation Phoenix](Phoenix.md)


---


If you are mentor, propose your idea by adding a markdown file
to [this folder](https://github.com/AOSSIE-Org/Info/tree/main/GSoC-Ideas/2026)
and then add a link to your file in the list above. Inform the admins in Discord.
Admins may modify or remove your ideas.

Commit message:

Add Agora Voting on Chain to project ideas

GSoC-Ideas/2026/index.md, after:

# AOSSIE's Idea List for Google Summer of Code 2026

As an umbrella organization since its inception 10 years ago, AOSSIE's projects have evolved mostly independently from each other. More recently, we have started a deliberate effort to group these projects by theme and skillset and to ensure that knowledge and mentorship propagates efficiently across projects of the same themes and with the same skillset. This year we are taking another step in this direction with the introduction of org-wide ideas.


* [Project-Specific Ideas, Grouped by Theme](index.md#project-specific-ideas-grouped-by-theme)
* [Organization-Wide Ideas](index.md#organization-wide-ideas)


## Project-Specific Ideas, Grouped by Theme and Tagged by Skillset

Project-specific ideas are ideas where the contributor is expected to focus on a single project, while taking care of all aspects of the project. These ideas are suitable for contributors who are generalists and interested in using all technical competence areas required by the project.

The skillset needed in each idea is shown in brackets.

### Theme: Open Money

**Theme goal:** research and develop open source money. 

**Ideas:**
  - [Gluon](Gluon.md) _{Blockchain}_ _{Web}_
  - [Djed](Djed.md) _{Blockchain}_ _{Web}_
  - [StablePay](StablePay.md) _{Blockchain}_ _{Web}_
  - [Zplit](Zplit.md) _{Blockchain}_ _{Mobile}_
  - [MiniChain](MiniChain.md) _{Blockchain}_

### Theme: Decentralized Economic and Financial Stability

**Theme goal:** improve economic and financial stability in DeFi.

**Ideas:**
  - [Fate](Fate.md) _{Blockchain}_ _{Web}_
  - [Karma](Karma.md) _{Blockchain}_ _{Web}_
  - [Orb](Orb.md) _{Blockchain}_ _{Web}_
  - [Porting our Projects from EVM to Ergo](Ergo.md) _{Blockchain}_ _{Web}_
  - [An Order-Book Variation of the Maelstrom Auction-Based Decentralized Exchange](OrderBookAuctionExchange.md) _{Blockchain}_ _{Web}_


### Theme: User-Empowering "Sunny" Tools

**Theme goal:** empower users to do localy, in their own devices, what would normally require them to depend on cloud-based services.

**Ideas:**
  - [PictoPy](PictoPy.md) _{AI}_ _{Desktop}_
  - [DocPilot](DocPilot.md) _{Mobile}_ _{AI}_
  - [Smart Notes](SmartNotes.md) _{AI}_ _{Desktop}_
  - [Neurotrack](Neurotrack.md) _{Mobile}_ _{AI}_

### Theme: Trust

**Theme goal:** enable us to trust the people and sources of knowledge that we rely on.

**Ideas:**
  - [End-to-End Open Verifiable LLM](LLM.md) _{AI}_ 
  - [Decentralized Identity Tokens](DIT.md) _{Blockchain}_ _{Web}_


### Theme: Education

**Theme goal:** help people learn.

**Ideas*:* 
  - [Interactive Quizz Experience for EduAid](EduAid.md) _{AI}_ _{Web}_
  - [Novel AI-Powered Education-Focused Apps](EduAI.md) _{AI}_ _{Mobile}_


### Theme: Sustainability

**Theme goal:** protect the environment and increase awareness about our planet's nature.
  
**Ideas:**   
  - AOSSIE has many projects related to carbon footprint awareness. These projects have become inactive recently, but sustainability remains a strong focus theme for AOSSIE. Therefore, although we do not have specific ideas within this theme this year so far, our sustainability projects are in scope for our org-wide ideas above and we are open to novel sustainability-related project ideas.

### Theme: Communication

**Theme goal:** build open, free and censorship-resistant communication infra-structure. 
  - [Resonate](Resonate.md) _{Mobile}_
  - [Rein](Rein.md) _{Networks}_


### Theme: Governance and Management

**Theme goal:** ease community and team work.
  - [Org Explorer](OrgExplorer.md)  _{Web}_
  - [Discord/Github Bot](Bot.md) _{Bots}_
  - [Ellena](Ellena.md) _{Web}_ _{AI}_
  - [Agora Voting on Chain](AgoraOnChain.md) _{Web}_ _{Blockchain}_

We are open to proposals that fit into our general themes, even if they don't fit exactly the ideas that are currently listed above. However, if you have such a proposal, discuss it with mentors and other contributors publicly in Discord firstly.


## Organization-Wide Ideas

Org-wide ideas are ideas where a single contributor will contribute to many of our projects, but focusing on a single aspect in every project. These ideas are particularly suitable for contributors who prefer to specialize in a single technical competence area and who have the soft skills to interact effectively with contributors and mentors from many projects.

- [DevOps](DevOps.md)
- [Fundraising and Monetization](FundraisingMonetization.md)
- [Redundancy and Choice for External Dependencies](Choice.md)
- [Making our Projects Independent from Cloud Services](LessCloud.md)
- [Better UI/UX for our Projects](UI.md)
- [Design and Implement Great-Looking Landing Pages for our Projects](LandingPages.md)
- [SEO, Social Sharing and Marketing](SEO.md)
- [Operation Phoenix](Phoenix.md)


---


If you are mentor, propose your idea by using our [Idea Template](../Template.md)
to [this folder](https://github.com/AOSSIE-Org/Info/tree/main/GSoC-Ideas/2026)
and then add a link to your file in the list above. Inform the admins in Discord.
Admins may modify or remove your ideas.
